# ROS2 MRWG - Minutes 2nd August 2022

**Scheduled Time:** *0800 PST (GMT-08:00), 2nd August 2022*

**Meeting Link:** [https://meet.google.com/aqk-tjpv-hrs](https://meet.google.com/aqk-tjpv-hrs)

**Meeting Opened:** 0756 PST (GMT-07:56), 2nd August 2022

**Minutes Taken By:** Yuri Oliveira (Matosinho), Arjo Chakravarty (@arjo129)

**Recording:** https://drive.google.com/file/d/1t6RpeTvlfpKiQ6RvM7Tgfb2Mcawla-I8/view?usp=sharing

## Attendance

Arjo Chakravarty, B. Abraham, Dharini Dutia, Gustavo Rezende, Jessica Herman, John Naglak, Laura Lindzey, Louise Poubel, Mabel Zhang, Roland Arsenault, Russ Webber, Ryan Govostes, Thomas Denewiler, Vatan Aksoy, Yuri Oliveira.


## Previous Action Points

[x] WG to provide feedback to LP for hydrodynamic added mass.
[x] WG to join Standard Interface focus group if interested
[ ] Standard Interface Architecture to be presented next meeting

## Kanban Board
- *AC*: Mich from Ekumen Labs has completed the implementation of Doppler Velocity Log simulation as part of the LRAUV project.
- *RW*: Issue of union types with UMAA standards. Seems simple.
- *AC*: For context, the standard interfaces group is trying to directly use ROS2 to access UMAA standards (which is also a DDS based protocol).
- *AC*: Lookup sensor for modelling science data in progress.
- *YO*: Velocity control and thruster allocation.


## ROSCON Maritime Interfaces BoF organization
- *MZ*:
  - Refer to the google doc: https://docs.google.com/document/d/1Q_EGEk0kKRwhlFbuWfpmFFoDXBTMW-ewVpO3mrugEGQ/edit
  - Hybrid format
  - 3 Months away. Need In-Charges (ICs) for topics to discuss in breakout rooms see the back of the document.
  - Do during lunch, may not have floating rooms available.
  - First day, lunch because second day we have a cluster of talks. Brian Bingham suggested a happy hour.
  - Waiting to figure out rooms
*YO*: Asks about creating forms.

## Standard interfaces WG
Updates from NE (not present) here: https://github.com/ros-maritime/issue_tracking/issues/17
- *JH*: If anyone wants to do a deeper dive into UMAA/ROS2 compatibility, there's a recording of the talk Chris Lalancette and I gave at ROS World last year on that topic. See https://vimeo.com/649649793/31032f6fba

## Other feedback
- *DD*: Need ideas for hydrodynamics tests
- *AC*: Check tranforms, make sure the behaviours are pose invariant. Check added mass. To feed back later
- *LL*: Can you announce the next meeting with a bit more notice?

## Action Points
- Need people for organization and breakout discussion ICs for BoF.
- Refer to Mabel’s doc for the BoF
- Standard interfaces group to watch and consider the feedback from Chris Lalancette’s talk
- @arjo129 to feedback on @quarkytale’s hydrodynamic plugins.
- Standard Interface Architecture to be presented next meeting
- To announce meeting earlier.


## Chat Transcript
```
AC:
https://docs.google.com/document/d/1Q_EGEk0kKRwhlFbuWfpmFFoDXBTMW-ewVpO3mrugEGQ/edit
Yuri Oliveira 11:14 PM
can you guys hear me?
My question is that in th doc there is a need for someone to do a FOrm, has this form already mbeing done?
"[Need volunteer, else Mabel] Create Google Form for registration, to get head count and general sense of topics"
Jessica Herman 11:16 PM
If anyone wants to do a deeper dive into UMAA/ROS2 compatibility, there's a recording of the talk Chris Lalancette and I gave at ROS World last year on that topic
Mabel Zhang 11:18 PM
https://vimeo.com/649649793/31032f6fba
AC 11:19 PM
https://github.com/ros-maritime/issue_tracking/issues/17
Laura Lindzey 11:23 PM
Can you announce the next meeting with a bit more notice?

```
