ROS2 MRWG - Minutes 7th July 2022
==================
**Scheduled Time:** *0800 PST (GMT-08:00), 7th June 2022*

**Meeting Link:** https://meet.google.com/hki-mmkm-aeg 

**Meeting Opened:** 0805 PST (GMT-08:00), 7th June 2022

**Minutes Taken By:** Nathan Edwards

## Attendance

+1 617 *** **44, Arjo Chakravarty, B Abraham, Denis Stogl, Gustavo Silva, Isaac Vandor, Laura Lindzey, Louise Poubel, Mabel Zhang, Olivier Kermorgant, Roland Arsenault, Shunong Wu, Sina Aghli, Wai Yen Chan, Yuri de Matos, Nathan Edwards

---
## Previous Minutes

- None Available

## Previous Action Points

- Nill / Discussed in GB
---

## General Business

**Charter**

- AC: Charter to finalised by the end of the week, can all please provide any additional changes / feedback on the PR - https://github.com/ros-maritime/community/pull/1 
   - No additional feature to be added

**Focus Items**
- LL: AUV Standard Interfaces
   - LL: standard interfaces started with acoustics
   - If there other messages we would like to include, we need to make a issue / PR apl-ocean-engineering/hydrographic_msgs
   - ROS1 -> ROS2 migration for tooling, recommended to be a separate repo
   - AC: Packaging up tooling
   - RA: RVIZ Plugin is still in alpha
   - MZ: repository needs to be somewhere that is maintained
   - AC: Need to come up with some maintainer
- AC: Focus on setting up the infrastructure
- Awesome-maritime-robotics to become a repository container useful repositories that we are working on
- LP: to present added mass SDFormat next meeting. This allows native use within ignition. This removes the need for the requirement for a plugin. PR - https://github.com/gazebosim/gz-sim/issues/1462
   - Here's the PR for the added mass proposal, don't mind the broken Latex on the preview. Early feedback is highly appreciated, thanks! https://github.com/gazebosim/sdf_tutorials/pull/76 
- AC: ROSCON
   - MZ propose an in-person format for networking with a virtual backup.
   - ALL in favour for MZ to start thinking about ROSCON
- YO Thruster allocation from URDF/SDF - https://github.com/ros-maritime/issue_tracking/issues/9
- DS:  ROS2 Control
   - ROV control architecture was presented. 
   - Planning to open source some of the code and some of the data
      - Drivers may not be, including thruster manager
      - OpenSource strategy is being discussed
   - Requesting any feedback on this system
- SA Asked if anyone had a UKF state estimated that takes in ROV sensor suites
   - Robot Localisation Pipeline, biassed towards ground vehicles
   - YO noted that he found a c++ package that can do this, but needs to be packaged up in ROS.
   - Issue needs to be updated, SA to update issue.
- AC everyone to come back to the group, and have a point of interest to work on.
- ALL agreed to merge in the charter by the end of the week.

-----------------
## Action Items
- [x] MZ to start thinking about ROSCON
- [x] ALL to review charter by 10/06/2022 for merge
- [x] ALL to review Kanban board and raise any additional items

## Relevant Links
- MRWG Github - https://github.com/ros-maritime
- Kanban Board - https://github.com/orgs/ros-maritime/projects/1
- Charter - https://github.com/ros-maritime/community/pull/1

**Next Meeting:** 5th July 2022, 0800 PST

**Video Link:** [ROS_MRWG_20220607.mkv](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1ClNouN4w2QRszPIaRVMl2Qp9DtyjUag8/view?usp=sharing)

**Chat Transcript:** None
